
Guided Capstone Project Overview + Context
Your client is Big Mountain Resort, a ski resort located in Montana. Big Mountain Resort
offers spectacular views of Glacier National Park and Flathead National Forest, with
access to 105 trails. Every year about 350,000 people ski or snowboard at Big Mountain.
This mountain can accommodate skiers and riders of all levels and abilities.
These are serviced by 11 lifts, 2 T-bars, and 1 magic carpet for novice skiers. The
longest run is named Hellfire and is 3.3 miles in length. The base elevation is 4,464 ft,
and the summit is 6,817 ft with a vertical drop of 2,353 ft.
Big Mountain Resort has recently installed an additional chair lift to help increase the
distribution of visitors across the mountain. This additional chair increases their
operating costs by $1,540,000 this season.
The resort's pricing strategy has been to charge a premium above the average price of
resorts in its market segment. They know there are limitations to this approach. There's
a suspicion that Big Mountain is not capitalizing on its facilities as much as it could.
Basing their pricing on just the market average does not provide the business with a
good sense of how important some facilities are compared to others. This hampers
investment strategy. You are part of a new data science team brought in to implement a
more data-driven business strategy. The business wants some guidance on how to
select a better value for their ticket price. They are also considering a number of
changes that they hope will either cut costs without undermining the ticket price or will
support an even higher ticket price.
Problem Statement Worksheet Sections
What is the business problem you're investigating and what hypothesis can be made to
support the business outcome?
Tip: Review the last paragraph of the overview and generate ideas about how to
increase revenue for the resort. Once you have an idea or two, use the data overview
provided below to determine if your idea can be evaluated and supported by these data.
Keep in mind that this data contains information from 330 resorts in the US that can be
considered part of the same market share and we have these same data columns for
Big Mountain Resort as well.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Context
Here is where we define our business initiative to solve the problem the business wants
to deal with.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Criteria for success
This is a key step in any business problem or data science project. You should know
what the outcome expectations are, and be able to communicate them clearly to all
involved stakeholders in order to succeed. In the absence of clearly defined success
criteria and scope, it can be difficult to identify when the project is complete.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Scope of solution space
The solution space provides more details about the tasks you will complete to reach the
solution.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Constraints
The constraints section helps you, the data scientist, communicate anticipated conflict
in implementing recommendations or findings of the project. Take a moment to
consider what potential issues could arise when presenting your recommendations to
the key stakeholders.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Stakeholders
Identifying the key stakeholders in your project motivates the trajectory of your work
and gives you access to key insights and data to support your analysis. Mapping out all
the people with vested interests in your project outcome will help you build the network
needed to complete the project, as well as provide an audience to address when writing
your data story.
In this project, you're working directly with the Director of Operations, Jimmy Blackburn,
and he has connected you with Alesha Eisen, the Database Manager. These are you're
only two contacts for this project.
Write your response in your problem statement worksheet.
Data Source(s)
Gaining access to the proper data sources can be difficult — perhaps you need a
specific user level access granted to a SQL database or an S3 bucket. In this example,
you’ll work with a single CSV file that you got from the database manager. You need to
carefully review the data columns to ensure it has what you need to answer your
business question. The data is loaded below; use this data snippet along with the
column descriptions in the metadata to guide you in identifying the important columns
needed to complete this project.
Review the metadata file with column descriptions (below).
